# Error Analysis and Incorrectly Labeled Data

Yang Xi<br>
30 Sep 2020

<br>

* Error Analysis
* Cleaning Up Incorrectly Labeled Data
* References

<br>

<br>

## Error Analysis
If your model has not yet reached human level performance, **error analysis** is useful to help figure out what to do next.

Let's look at an example of "cat classifier".<br>
On the dev set, you find that some dogs are misclassified as cat. Shall we go ahead to collect more dog pictures?<br>
Before we do that, let’s perform the **error analysis** first:
1.	Get 100 mislabeled dev set examples
2.	Count how many are dogs

If only 5% errors are dog pictures, which means that if you focus on improving classification of dogs, you would likely to improve performance by only 5% (say, from 10% error to 9.5% error).<br>
Alternatively, if 50% errors are dog pictures, you would be more optimistic in focusing on dogs as the next step.

During error analysis, you can also evaluate multiple ideas in parallel, like number of dog errors, number of “big cat” (lions, tigers, etc) errors, blur images… etc.<br>
You can use a table to facilitate your count when browsing through the errors.

<br>

## Cleaning Up Incorrectly Labeled Data

If during data exploration, you found that some samples are wrongly labeled.<br>
Does it worth your effort to correct the label?

Many machine learning algorithms are quite robust to **random errors in the training set**
* Given that there is not a lot of errors
* NOT robust to systematic errors!

For **dev and test set**, you can use error analysis with a column to count "incorrectly labeled" error, and see if it worth the effort to clean them up.

**How to correct incorrect dev/test set example?**
* Apply same process to your dev and test sets to make sure they continue to come from the same distribution.
* You may consider examining also observations your model got right - while this is not easy to do
* It’s generally OK to not correct data in training data set - while you will have a mismatched data distribution problem.

<br>

## References
* [(2020 Andrew Ng) Structuring Machine Learning Projects](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-projects)
