# Data, Features and Preliminary Analysis

Yang Xi<br>
30 Sep 2020

<br>

* Combine Domain Knowledge with Statistical Methods
* Preliminary Analysis
    * Data Profiling
    * Missing Value Imputation
* References

<br>

<br>

## Combine Domain Knowledge with Statistical Methods
To acquire the first set of data to start with, it takes a combination of domain knowledge and statistical methods.<br>
Such combination will help answer the following questions:
* What is the **"business language"**?
    * A business domain usually has its specific terminologies and definitions. Speaking "business language" will make the future communication much smoother.
* What should be the **granularity** of data (daily, monthly, etc)?
* **How much data** do I need?
    * There can be rich amount of historic data, while the aged data may not be relevant to the current business problem.
* What kind of **seasonality or periodicity** will the data cover?
    * If we want to model certain seasonality, we need to have enough data to cover multiple periods.
* Which are the **relevant features**?
    * The domain knowledge usually suggests a list of relevant features, which should be prioritized.

One the other hand, features generated from statistical methods, ideally, should hold a specific business meaning.

<br>

## Preliminary Analysis
**Preliminary analysis** is an important step to understand data and identify potential data errors in early stage of project.

Note that I will include **data transformation** as part of model training process, instead of a individual task.

<br>

### Data Profiling
There are open-sourced tools to generate data profiling report. Such report will
* Identify potential issues including duplicates, high skewness, high sparsity, missing value, extreme values, high cardinality, etc
* Summary univariate statistics, as well as multivariate statistics such as correlation

One example is the **pandas-profiling** python package (refer to the **References** section).

<br>

### Missing Value Imputation

Here I will classify missing values based on **what to do with it**:
* **Data Error**: missing values could be a result of errors in upstream data pipeline.<br>
In this case, we need to correct the data pipeline.
* **Logical (0, False or previous value)**: missing values could just mean "0", "False", the previous value or value with certain logical reason. Fill them up accordingly!
* **Not Applicable**: this field is indeed not applicable to the observation.<br>
If this is not a concern in the dev/test set, we can discard such observations.
* **Many Missing Values**: if certain feature contains huge amount of missing value, discard this feature.
* **Multivariate Imputation**: after considering the points above, we **MAY** consider impute the missing values with multivariate imputation.
    * Be aware of **information leakage**!

<br>

## References
* [pandas-profiling](https://github.com/pandas-profiling/pandas-profiling)
* [(scikit-learn) Imputation of Missing Values](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/impute.html)
