# 7.1 Motivation
Cross-validation (CV) targets to determine the generalization error to prevent overfitting.<br>
However, standard CV can fail in financial problems, where it failed to detect overfitting.

<br>

# 7.2 The Goal of Cross-Validation
CV targets to evaluate model's capability to learn the general structure of the data, and the performance on future unseen features.
* In finance CV is typically used in model development and backtesting.
    * This chapter will focus on CV for model development.

<br>

# 7.3 Why K-Fold CV Fails in Finance
* Observations cannot be assumed to be drawn from an IID process
    * Leakage takes place when the training set contains information in the test set.
        * Such as random sampling from data with high serial correlation.
    * Methods to reduce the chance and effect of leakage
        * Avoid sampling both training set and test set from overlapping period
        * Avoid overfitting the estimator
    * Note that data sampled from overlapping period may not always cause information leakage, as long as they are independent

* The test set is used multiple times while developing a model, leading to multiple testing and selection bias

<br>

# 7.4 Purged K-Fold CV
## 7.4.1 Purging the Training Set
"Purging" means to remove from the training set all observations whose labels overlapped in time with those in the testing set.
    * For example, the testing set contains observations whose labels (Y) were generated using data from 9AM to 11AM.
    * In training set, if there are observations whose labels were generate using data from 8AM to 10AM, such obervations shoud be removed.

<br>

## 7.4.2 Embargo
"Embargo" means to remove from the training set observations that immediately **follow (after)** an observation in the testing set.

<br>

## 7.4.3 The Purged K-Fold Class
We should apply purging and embargo whenever we produce a train/test split, such as for hyper-parameter tuning, backtesting, performance evaluation.
